<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="chap09"/>CHAPTER IX.<br/>
			JUST LIKE A GIRL</h2>
			<p>“Aunt Ray!” Halsey said from the gloom behind the lamps. “What in the world are you doing here?”</p>
			<p>“Taking a walk,” I said, trying to be composed. I don’t think the answer struck either of us as being ridiculous at the time. “Oh, Halsey, where have you been?”</p>
			<p>“Let me take you up to the house.” He was in the road, and had Beulah and the basket out of my arms in a moment. I could see the car plainly now, and Warner was at the wheel⁠—Warner in an ulster and a pair of slippers, over Heaven knows what. Jack Bailey was not there. I got in, and we went slowly and painfully up to the house.</p>
			<p>We did not talk. What we had to say was too important to commence there, and, besides, it took all kinds of coaxing from both men to get the Dragon Fly up the last grade. Only when we had closed the front door and stood facing each other in the hall, did Halsey say anything. He slipped his strong young arm around my shoulders and turned me so I faced the light.</p>
			<p>“Poor Aunt Ray!” he said gently. And I nearly wept again. “I⁠—I must see Gertrude, too; we will have a three-cornered talk.”</p>
			<p>And then Gertrude herself came down the stairs. She had not been to bed, evidently: she still wore the white negligée she had worn earlier in the evening, and she limped somewhat. During her slow progress down the stairs I had time to notice one thing: Mr. Jamieson had said the woman who escaped from the cellar had worn no shoe on her right foot. Gertrude’s right ankle was the one she had sprained!</p>
			<p>The meeting between brother and sister was tense, but without tears. Halsey kissed her tenderly, and I noticed evidences of strain and anxiety in both young faces.</p>
			<p>“Is everything⁠—right?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“Right as can be,” with forced cheerfulness.</p>
			<p>I lighted the living-room and we went in there. Only a half-hour before I had sat with Mr. Jamieson in that very room, listening while he overtly accused both Gertrude and Halsey of at least a knowledge of the death of Arnold Armstrong. Now Halsey was here to speak for himself: I should learn everything that had puzzled me.</p>
			<p>“I saw it in the paper to-night for the first time,” he was saying. “It knocked me dumb. When I think of this houseful of women, and a thing like that occurring!”</p>
			<p>Gertrude’s face was still set and white. “That isn’t all, Halsey,” she said. “You and⁠—and Jack left almost at the time it happened. The detective here thinks that you⁠—that we⁠—know something about it.”</p>
			<p>“The devil he does!” Halsey’s eyes were fairly starting from his head. “I beg your pardon, Aunt Ray, but⁠—the fellow’s a lunatic.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me everything, won’t you, Halsey?” I begged. “Tell me where you went that night, or rather morning, and why you went as you did. This has been a terrible forty-eight hours for all of us.”</p>
			<p>He stood staring at me, and I could see the horror of the situation dawning in his face.</p>
			<p>“I can’t tell you where I went, Aunt Ray,” he said, after a moment. “As to why, you will learn that soon enough. But Gertrude knows that Jack and I left the house before this thing⁠—this horrible murder⁠—occurred.”</p>
			<p>“Mr. Jamieson does not believe me,” Gertrude said drearily. “Halsey, if the worst comes, if they should arrest you, you must⁠—tell.”</p>
			<p>“I shall tell nothing,” he said with a new sternness in his voice. “Aunt Ray, it was necessary for Jack and me to leave that night. I can not tell you why⁠—just yet. As to where we went, if I have to depend on that as an alibi, I shall not tell. The whole thing is an absurdity, a trumped-up charge that can not possibly be serious.”</p>
			<p>“Has Mr. Bailey gone back to the city,” I demanded, “or to the club?”</p>
			<p>“Neither,” defiantly; “at the present moment I do not know where he is.”</p>
			<p>“Halsey,” I asked gravely, leaning forward, “have you the slightest suspicion who killed Arnold Armstrong? The police think he was admitted from within, and that he was shot down from above, by someone on the circular staircase.”</p>
			<p>“I know nothing of it,” he maintained; but I fancied I caught a sudden glance at Gertrude, a flash of something that died as it came.</p>
			<p>As quietly, as calmly as I could, I went over the whole story, from the night Liddy and I had been alone up to the strange experience of Rosie and her pursuer. The basket still stood on the table, a mute witness to this last mystifying occurrence.</p>
			<p>“There is something else,” I said hesitatingly, at the last. “Halsey, I have never told this even to Gertrude, but the morning after the crime, I found, in a tulip bed, a revolver. It⁠—it was yours, Halsey.”</p>
			<p>For an appreciable moment Halsey stared at me. Then he turned to Gertrude.</p>
			<p>“My revolver, Trude!” he exclaimed. “Why, Jack took my revolver with him, didn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, for Heaven’s sake don’t say that,” I implored. “The detective thinks possibly Jack Bailey came back, and⁠—and the thing happened then.”</p>
			<p>“He didn’t come back,” Halsey said sternly. “Gertrude, when you brought down a revolver that night for Jack to take with him, what one did you bring? Mine?”</p>
			<p>Gertrude was defiant now.</p>
			<p>“No. Yours was loaded, and I was afraid of what Jack might do. I gave him one I have had for a year or two. It was empty.”</p>
			<p>Halsey threw up both hands despairingly.</p>
			<p>“If that isn’t like a girl!” he said. “Why didn’t you do what I asked you to, Gertrude? You send Bailey off with an empty gun, and throw mine in a tulip bed, of all places on earth! Mine was a thirty-eight caliber. The inquest will show, of course, that the bullet that killed Armstrong was a thirty-eight. Then where shall I be?”</p>
			<p>“You forget,” I broke in, “that I have the revolver, and that no one knows about it.”</p>
			<p>But Gertrude had risen angrily.</p>
			<p>“I can not stand it; it is always with me,” she cried. “Halsey, I did not throw your revolver into the tulip bed. I⁠—think⁠—you⁠—did it⁠—yourself!”</p>
			<p>They stared at each other across the big library table, with young eyes all at once hard, suspicious. And then Gertrude held out both hands to him appealingly.</p>
			<p>“We must not,” she said brokenly. “Just now, with so much at stake, it⁠—is shameful. I know you are as ignorant as I am. Make me believe it, Halsey.”</p>
			<p>Halsey soothed her as best he could, and the breach seemed healed. But long after I went to bed he sat down-stairs in the living-room alone, and I knew he was going over the case as he had learned it. Some things were clear to him that were dark to me. He knew, and Gertrude, too, why Jack Bailey and he had gone away that night, as they did. He knew where they had been for the last forty-eight hours, and why Jack Bailey had not returned with him. It seemed to me that without fuller confidence from both the children⁠—they are always children to me⁠—I should never be able to learn anything.</p>
			<p>As I was finally getting ready for bed, Halsey came up-stairs and knocked at my door. When I had got into a negligée⁠—I used to say wrapper before Gertrude came back from school⁠—I let him in. He stood in the doorway a moment, and then he went into agonies of silent mirth. I sat down on the side of the bed and waited in severe silence for him to stop, but he only seemed to grow worse.</p>
			<p>When he had recovered he took me by the elbow and pulled me in front of the mirror.</p>
			<p>“ ‘How to be beautiful,’ ” he quoted. “ ‘Advice to maids and matrons,’ by Beatrice Fairfax!” And then I saw myself. I had neglected to remove my wrinkle eradicators, and I presume my appearance was odd. I believe that it is a woman’s duty to care for her looks, but it is much like telling a necessary falsehood⁠—one must not be found out. By the time I got them off Halsey was serious again, and I listened to his story.</p>
			<p>“Aunt Ray,” he began, extinguishing his cigarette on the back of my ivory hair-brush, “I would give a lot to tell you the whole thing. But⁠—I can’t, for a day or so, anyhow. But one thing I might have told you a long time ago. If you had known it, you would not have suspected me for a moment of⁠—of having anything to do with the attack on Arnold Armstrong. Goodness knows what I might do to a fellow like that, if there was enough provocation, and I had a gun in my hand⁠—under ordinary circumstances. But⁠—I care a great deal about Louise Armstrong, Aunt Ray. I hope to marry her some day. Is it likely I would kill her brother?”</p>
			<p>“Her stepbrother,” I corrected. “No, of course, it isn’t likely, or possible. Why didn’t you tell me, Halsey?”</p>
			<p>“Well, there were two reasons,” he said slowly. “One was that you had a girl already picked out for me⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense,” I broke in, and felt myself growing red. I had, indeed, one of the⁠—but no matter.</p>
			<p>“And the second reason,” he pursued, “was that the Armstrongs would have none of me.”</p>
			<p>I sat bolt upright at that and gasped.</p>
			<p>“The Armstrongs!” I repeated. “With old Peter Armstrong driving a stage across the mountains while your grandfather was war governor⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Well, of course, the war governor’s dead, and out of the matrimonial market,” Halsey interrupted. “And the present Innes admits himself he isn’t good enough for⁠—for Louise.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly,” I said despairingly, “and, of course, you are taken at your own valuation. The Inneses are not always so self-depreciatory.”</p>
			<p>“Not always, no,” he said, looking at me with his boyish smile. “Fortunately, Louise doesn’t agree with her family. She’s willing to take me, war governor or no, provided her mother consents. She isn’t overly-fond of her stepfather, but she adores her mother. And now, can’t you see where this thing puts me? Down and out, with all of them.”</p>
			<p>“But the whole thing is absurd,” I argued. “And besides, Gertrude’s sworn statement that you left before Arnold Armstrong came would clear you at once.”</p>
			<p>Halsey got up and began to pace the room, and the air of cheerfulness dropped like a mask.</p>
			<p>“She can’t swear it,” he said finally. “Gertrude’s story was true as far as it went, but she didn’t tell everything. Arnold Armstrong came here at two-thirty⁠—came into the billiard-room and left in five minutes. He came to bring⁠—something.”</p>
			<p>“Halsey,” I cried, “you <i>must</i> tell me the whole truth. Every time I see a way for you to escape you block it yourself with this wall of mystery. What did he bring?”</p>
			<p>“A telegram⁠—for Bailey,” he said. “It came by special messenger from town, and was⁠—most important. Bailey had started for here, and the messenger had gone back to the city. The steward gave it to Arnold, who had been drinking all day and couldn’t sleep, and was going for a stroll in the direction of Sunnyside.”</p>
			<p>“And he brought it?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“What was in the telegram?”</p>
			<p>“I can tell you⁠—as soon as certain things are made public. It is only a matter of days now,” gloomily.</p>
			<p>“And Gertrude’s story of a telephone message?”</p>
			<p>“Poor Trude!” he half whispered. “Poor loyal little girl! Aunt Ray, there was no such message. No doubt your detective already knows that and discredits all Gertrude told him.”</p>
			<p>“And when she went back, it was to get⁠—the telegram?”</p>
			<p>“Probably,” Halsey said slowly. “When you get to thinking about it, Aunt Ray, it looks bad for all three of us, doesn’t it? And yet⁠—I will take my oath none of us even inadvertently killed that poor devil.”</p>
			<p>I looked at the closed door into Gertrude’s dressing-room, and lowered my voice.</p>
			<p>“The same horrible thought keeps recurring to me,” I whispered. “Halsey, Gertrude probably had your revolver: she must have examined it, anyhow, that night. After you⁠—and Jack had gone, what if that ruffian came back, and she⁠—and she⁠—”</p>
			<p>I couldn’t finish. Halsey stood looking at me with shut lips.</p>
			<p>“She might have heard him fumbling at the door he had no key, the police say⁠—and thinking it was you, or Jack, she admitted him. When she saw her mistake she ran up the stairs, a step or two, and turning, like an animal at bay, she fired.”</p>
			<p>Halsey had his hand over my lips before I finished, and in that position we stared each at the other, our stricken glances crossing.</p>
			<p>“The revolver⁠—my revolver⁠—thrown into the tulip bed!” he muttered to himself. “Thrown perhaps from an upper window: you say it was buried deep. Her prostration ever since, her⁠—Aunt Ray, you don’t think it was Gertrude who fell down the clothes chute?”</p>
			<p>I could only nod my head in a hopeless affirmative.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
