<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Hint of Scandal</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>In giving the gist of what happened at the inquest, I have only one excuse⁠—to recall to the reader the events of the night of Arnold Armstrong’s murder. Many things had occurred which were not brought out at the inquest and some things were told there that were new to me. Altogether, it was a gloomy affair, and the six men in the corner, who constituted the coroner’s jury, were evidently the merest puppets in the hands of that all-powerful gentleman, the coroner.</p>
			<p>Gertrude and I sat well back, with our veils down. There were a number of people I knew: Barbara Fitzhugh, in extravagant mourning⁠—she always went into black on the slightest provocation, because it was becoming⁠—and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis, the man who had come over from the Greenwood Club the night of the murder. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harton was there, too, looking impatient as the inquest dragged, but alive to every particle of evidence. From a corner <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jamieson was watching the proceedings intently.</p>
			<p>Doctor Stewart was called first. His evidence was told briefly, and amounted to this: on the Sunday morning previous, at a quarter before five, he had been called to the telephone. The message was from a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis, who asked him to come at once to Sunnyside, as there had been an accident there, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Arnold Armstrong had been shot. He had dressed hastily, gathered up some instruments, and driven to Sunnyside.</p>
			<p>He was met by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis, who took him at once to the east wing. There, just as he had fallen, was the body of Arnold Armstrong. There was no need of the instruments: the man was dead. In answer to the coroner’s question⁠—no, the body had not been moved, save to turn it over. It lay at the foot of the circular staircase. Yes, he believed death had been instantaneous. The body was still somewhat warm and rigor mortis had not set in. It occurred late in cases of sudden death. No, he believed the probability of suicide might be eliminated; the wounds could have been self-inflicted, but with difficulty, and there had been no weapon found.</p>
			<p>The doctor’s examination was over, but he hesitated and cleared his throat.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Coroner,” he said, “at the risk of taking up valuable time, I would like to speak of an incident that may or may not throw some light on this matter.”</p>
			<p>The audience was alert at once.</p>
			<p>“Kindly proceed, Doctor,” the coroner said.</p>
			<p>“My home is in Englewood, two miles from Casanova,” the doctor began. “In the absence of Doctor Walker, a number of Casanova people have been consulting me. A month ago⁠—five weeks, to be exact⁠—a woman whom I had never seen came to my office. She was in deep mourning and kept her veil down, and she brought for examination a child, a boy of six. The little fellow was ill; it looked like typhoid, and the mother was frantic. She wanted a permit to admit the youngster to the Children’s Hospital in town here, where I am a member of the staff, and I gave her one. The incident would have escaped me, but for a curious thing. Two days before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Armstrong was shot, I was sent for to go to the Country Club: someone had been struck with a golf-ball that had gone wild. It was late when I left⁠—I was on foot, and about a mile from the club, on the Claysburg road, I met two people. They were disputing violently, and I had no difficulty in recognizing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Armstrong. The woman, beyond doubt, was the one who had consulted me about the child.”</p>
			<p>At this hint of scandal, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ogden Fitzhugh sat up very straight. Jamieson was looking slightly skeptical, and the coroner made a note.</p>
			<p>“The Children’s Hospital, you say, Doctor?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes. But the child, who was entered as Lucien Wallace, was taken away by his mother two weeks ago. I have tried to trace them and failed.”</p>
			<p>All at once I remembered the telegram sent to Louise by someone signed <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">F. L. W.</abbr>⁠—presumably Doctor Walker. Could this veiled woman be the Nina Carrington of the message? But it was only idle speculation. I had no way of finding out, and the inquest was proceeding.</p>
			<p>The report of the coroner’s physician came next. The postmortem examination showed that the bullet had entered the chest in the fourth left intercostal space and had taken an oblique course downward and backward, piercing both the heart and lungs. The left lung was collapsed, and the exit point of the ball had been found in the muscles of the back to the left of the spinal column. It was improbable that such a wound had been self-inflicted, and its oblique downward course pointed to the fact that the shot had been fired from above. In other words, as the murdered man had been found dead at the foot of a staircase, it was probable that the shot had been fired by someone higher up on the stairs. There were no marks of powder. The bullet, a thirty-eight caliber, had been found in the dead man’s clothing, and was shown to the jury.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis was called next, but his testimony amounted to little.</p>
			<p>He had been summoned by telephone to Sunnyside, had come over at once with the steward and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winthrop, at present out of town. They had been admitted by the housekeeper, and had found the body lying at the foot of the staircase. He had made a search for a weapon, but there was none around. The outer entry door in the east wing had been unfastened and was open about an inch.</p>
			<p>I had been growing more and more nervous. When the coroner called <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Bailey, the room was filled with suppressed excitement. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jamieson went forward and spoke a few words to the coroner, who nodded. Then Halsey was called.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Innes,” the coroner said, “will you tell under what circumstances you saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Arnold Armstrong the night he died?”</p>
			<p>“I saw him first at the Country Club,” Halsey said quietly. He was rather pale, but very composed. “I stopped there with my automobile for gasolene. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Armstrong had been playing cards. When I saw him there, he was coming out of the card-room, talking to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Bailey.”</p>
			<p>“The nature of the discussion⁠—was it amicable?”</p>
			<p>Halsey hesitated.</p>
			<p>“They were having a dispute,” he said. “I asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey to leave the club with me and come to Sunnyside over Sunday.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t it a fact, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Innes, that you took <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey away from the clubhouse because you were afraid there would be blows?”</p>
			<p>“The situation was unpleasant,” Halsey said evasively.</p>
			<p>“At that time had you any suspicion that the Traders’ Bank had been wrecked?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“What occurred next?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey and I talked in the billiard-room until two-thirty.”</p>
			<p>“And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Arnold Armstrong came there, while you were talking?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He came about half-past two. He rapped at the east door, and I admitted him.”</p>
			<p>The silence in the room was intense. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jamieson’s eyes never left Halsey’s face.</p>
			<p>“Will you tell us the nature of his errand?”</p>
			<p>“He brought a telegram that had come to the club for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey.”</p>
			<p>“He was sober?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly, at that time. Not earlier.”</p>
			<p>“Was not his apparent friendliness a change from his former attitude?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. I did not understand it.”</p>
			<p>“How long did he stay?”</p>
			<p>“About five minutes. Then he left, by the east entrance.”</p>
			<p>“What occurred then?”</p>
			<p>“We talked for a few minutes, discussing a plan <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey had in mind. Then I went to the stables, where I kept my car, and got it out.”</p>
			<p>“Leaving <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey alone in the billiard-room?”</p>
			<p>Halsey hesitated.</p>
			<p>“My sister was there.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ogden Fitzhugh had the courage to turn and eye Gertrude through her lorgnon.</p>
			<p>“And then?”</p>
			<p>“I took the car along the lower road, not to disturb the household. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey came down across the lawn, through the hedge, and got into the car on the road.”</p>
			<p>“Then you know nothing of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Armstrong’s movements after he left the house?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing. I read of his death Monday evening for the first time.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey did not see him on his way across the lawn?”</p>
			<p>“I think not. If he had seen him he would have spoken of it.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you. That is all. Miss Gertrude Innes.”</p>
			<p>Gertrude’s replies were fully as concise as Halsey’s. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Fitzhugh subjected her to a close inspection, commencing with her hat and ending with her shoes. I flatter myself she found nothing wrong with either her gown or her manner, but poor Gertrude’s testimony was the reverse of comforting. She had been summoned, she said, by her brother, after <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Armstrong had gone.</p>
			<p>She had waited in the billiard-room with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey, until the automobile had been ready. Then she had locked the door at the foot of the staircase, and, taking a lamp, had accompanied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bailey to the main entrance of the house, and had watched him cross the lawn. Instead of going at once to her room, she had gone back to the billiard-room for something which had been left there. The card-room and billiard-room were in darkness. She had groped around, found the article she was looking for, and was on the point of returning to her room, when she had heard someone fumbling at the lock at the east outer door. She had thought it was probably her brother, and had been about to go to the door, when she heard it open. Almost immediately there was a shot, and she had run panic-stricken through the drawing-room and had roused the house.</p>
			<p>“You heard no other sound?” the coroner asked. “There was no one with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Armstrong when he entered?”</p>
			<p>“It was perfectly dark. There were no voices and I heard nothing. There was just the opening of the door, the shot, and the sound of somebody falling.”</p>
			<p>“Then, while you went through the drawing-room and upstairs to alarm the household, the criminal, whoever it was, could have escaped by the east door?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you. That will do.”</p>
			<p>I flatter myself that the coroner got little enough out of me. I saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jamieson smiling to himself, and the coroner gave me up, after a time. I admitted I had found the body, said I had not known who it was until <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jarvis told me, and ended by looking up at Barbara Fitzhugh and saying that in renting the house I had not expected to be involved in any family scandal. At which she turned purple.</p>
			<p>The verdict was that Arnold Armstrong had met his death at the hands of a person or persons unknown, and we all prepared to leave. Barbara Fitzhugh flounced out without waiting to speak to me, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harton came up, as I knew he would.</p>
			<p>“You have decided to give up the house, I hope, Miss Innes,” he said. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Armstrong has wired me again.”</p>
			<p>“I am not going to give it up,” I maintained, “until I understand some things that are puzzling me. The day that the murderer is discovered, I will leave.”</p>
			<p>“Then, judging by what I have heard, you will be back in the city very soon,” he said. And I knew that he suspected the discredited cashier of the Traders’ Bank.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jamieson came up to me as I was about to leave the coroner’s office.</p>
			<p>“How is your patient?” he asked with his odd little smile.</p>
			<p>“I have no patient,” I replied, startled.</p>
			<p>“I will put it in a different way, then. How is Miss Armstrong?”</p>
			<p>“She⁠—she is doing very well,” I stammered.</p>
			<p>“Good,” cheerfully. “And our ghost? Is it laid?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jamieson,” I said suddenly, “I wish you would do one thing: I wish you would come to Sunnyside and spend a few days there. The ghost is not laid. I want you to spend one night at least watching the circular staircase. The murder of Arnold Armstrong was a beginning, not an end.”</p>
			<p>He looked serious.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps I can do it,” he said. “I have been doing something else, but⁠—well, I will come out tonight.”</p>
			<p>We were very silent during the trip back to Sunnyside. I watched Gertrude closely and somewhat sadly. To me there was one glaring flaw in her story, and it seemed to stand out for everyone to see. Arnold Armstrong had had no key, and yet she said she had locked the east door. He must have been admitted from within the house; over and over I repeated it to myself.</p>
			<p>That night, as gently as I could, I told Louise the story of her stepbrother’s death. She sat in her big, pillow-filled chair, and heard me through without interruption. It was clear that she was shocked beyond words: if I had hoped to learn anything from her expression, I had failed. She was as much in the dark as we were.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
